Documentation json.merge.md (#1000)
RedisJSON/RedisJSON: docs/commands/json.merge.md

> Merge one or more `value` in a JSON document adding, updating, deleting and/or replacing a array at `path` in `key`

Reviewer: Please don't use `xxx` in the description of the command.
This line must be identical to what we have in commands.json. We currently have there "Sets or updates the JSON value at a path".

Merge on or more values in a JSON document

Author: change the commands.json also and simplify the current version as suggested

> Compliance with Json Merge Patch [RFC7396](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7396)

Reviewer: This command complies with [RFC 7396 - JSON Merge Patch](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7396).

[Examples](#examples)

## Required arguments

<details open><summary><code>key</code></summary>

is key to merge.
</details>

<details open><summary><code>path</code></summary>

> is JSONPath to specify. Default is root `$`. For new Redis keys the `path` must be the root. For existing keys, when the entire `path` exists, the value that it contains is replaced with the `json` value. For existing keys, when the `path` exists, except for the last element, a new child is added with the `json` value.

Reviewer: Default is root `$`.

How can we have a default if this is a required argument?

> is JSONPath to specify. Default is root `$`. For new Redis keys the `path` must be the root. For existing keys, when the entire `path` exists, the value that it contains is replaced with the `json` value. For existing keys, when the `path` exists, except for the last element, a new child is added with the `json` value.

Reviewer: replaced with the `json` value
-->
replaced with `value`

> 

Reviewer 2: @adrianoamaral Sorry, I see that you were pretty much aligned with corresponding phrasing in `JSON.SET`, such as 
> ...For new Redis keys...

So you can revert some of my suggestions so it would be syched as much a possible with `JSON.SET`?

</details>

<details open><summary><code>value</code></summary>

> is value to set at the specified path. `null` value delete the path. An array as value will replace the previous array

Reviewer: delete --> deletes.

"An array as value will replace" 
--> When `value` is an array - the previous value...

> is value to set at the specified path. `null` value delete the path. An array as value will replace the previous array
> </details>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is JSON value to merge with at the specified path. Merging is done according to the following rules per JSON value in the `value` argument while considering the corresponding original value if it exists:
*   merging an existing object key with a `null` value deletes the key
*   merging an existing object key with non-null value updates the value
*   merging a non-existing object key adds the key and value
*   merging an existing array with any merged value, replaces the entire array with the value
</details>
```

## Return value

JSET.MERGE returns a simple string reply: `OK` if executed correctly or `error` if fails to set the new values

For more information about replies, see [Redis serialization protocol specification](/docs/reference/protocol-spec).

## Examples

> The JSON.MERGE provide 4 different behaviours to merge changes on a given key: create unexistent path, update an existing path with a new value, delete a existing path and/or replace an array with a new array

Reviewer: The `JSON.MERGE` command provides four

Reviewer: is it "and/or"? aren't the behaviors mutually exclusive?

<details open>
<summary><b>Create a unexistent path-value</b></summary>

{{< highlight bash >}}

> 127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET doc $ '{"a":2}'

Reviewer: Please replace any "127.0.0.6379>" with "redis>"

OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.MERGE doc $.b '8'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET doc $
"[{\"a\":2,\"b\":8}]"
{{< / highlight >}}

</details>

<details open>

> <summary><b>Replace an existing value</b></summary>

Reviewer: Please be consistent in the examples:
Replacement/Deletion/Merging
or
Replace/Delete/Merge

{{< highlight bash >}}
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET doc $ '{"a":2}'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.MERGE doc $.a '3'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET doc $
"[{\"a\":3}]"
{{< / highlight >}}

</details>

<details open>

> <summary><b>Deletion on existing value</b></summary>

Reviewer: Deletion of

{{< highlight bash >}}
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET doc $ '{"a":2}'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.MERGE doc $.a 'null'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET doc $
"[{}]"
{{< / highlight >}}

</details>

<details open>
<summary><b>Replacing an Array</b></summary>

{{< highlight bash >}}
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET doc $ '{"a":[2,4,6,8]}'
OK

> 127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.MERGE doc $.a '[10,12]'

Reviewer 2: BTW can replace an array with any value, not necessarily only with an array

OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET doc $
"[{\"a\":[10,12]}]"
{{< / highlight >}}

</details>

<details open>
<summary><b>Merge changes in multi-paths</b></summary>

{{< highlight bash >}}
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET doc $ '{"f1": {"a":1}, "f2":{"a":2}}'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET doc

> "{\"f1\":{\"a\":1},\"f2\":{\"a\":2}}"

Reviewer 2: Aren't these 2 lines redundant?

127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.MERGE doc $ '{"f1": 'null', "f2":{"a":3, "b":4}, "f3":'[2,4,6]'}' 
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET doc
"{\"f2\":{\"a\":3,\"b\":4},\"f3\":[2,4,6]}"
{{< / highlight >}}

</details>

## See also

> `JSON.GET` | `JSON.MGET` | | `JSON.MSET`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`JSON.GET` | `JSON.MGET` | `JSON.SET` | `JSON.MSET`
```

> Merge one or more values in a JSON document at `path` in `key`

Reviewer: Suggested:

Merges a given JSON value into matching paths. Consequently, JSON values at matching paths are updated, deleted, or expended with new children

Reviewer 2: Only change `expend` to `expand`
